Ladies and gentlemen, put your digital hands together.
So awful.
Ladies and gentlemen, Harmontown.
It's now in session.
Please welcome to the stage Spencer Crittenden.
Oh, you can make more noise than that.
Yeah.
Thank you so much.
He's worked so hard for you.
How are you, man?
Welcome back.
Good to see you always.
Always good, comfortable to see you.
Puts me at ease.
We're ready to have a good show.
I know, full show.
Good show tonight.
With Jeff, it's like, what is he about to pull, you know?
I'm too dumb to be evil.
No, no.
You just are.
You're on the side of good.
I'm coming out and saying Jeff is not.
It's about time somebody really fucking pulled Jeff's strings.
Yeah.
He's not a good dude.
I do know a really good dude, though.
And he is the mayor of Harmontown.
Put your hands together.
Make some noise.
Don't slap your dog.
Ladies and gentlemen, Dan Harmon.
Yo.
Beep.
Rap.
Beat.
Rap and rap to the beat.
My name is MC Rap Beat.
I like to rap to the beat when I rap in the street.
I like to rap with my hands and also my feet.
I like to rap with a Tweety Bird.
Tweet, tweet, tweet.
I like the snow in the sleep.
Don't let it stop me, because I'm
mailing the sheet to you through a rap shoe that I put on my foot
when I bring it to you.
I'm Mr. MC rapping a lot.
I changed my name.
My name's MC Snot.
My name's MC Glapsalot.
My name is Polkadot.
I'm a rapper, rapper, rapper, roo.
I'm getting my energy up before the shoe starts.
OK, all right, good.
Where we go?
Yeah.
Oh, boy.
It's important to have me off guard, flat-footed.
Yeah.
Hi, Brandon.
Thanks for guest-controlling, Brandon Johnson.
So happy to be here.
I'm so sorry, Jeff Davis is gone.
Oh, where is he?
I don't know.
He's going to India.
Never mind.
I don't know if he's there yet?
Yeah, I don't think he's there yet.
Too baller.
Too baller, man.
Here's the never mind.
He's flying Emirates.
Wow.
Yeah, never mind.
That dude.
Like he said he has a petting zoo in his section of the plane.
But I bet it's like two turtles.
Yeah, his life is what my life would be like if my parents
would love me.
I don't know if that's how he got there.
Maybe like the indirect result of Drew Carey's parents
really not loving him a lot and trickled down.
Who know?
We have no idea who to thank or let's just thank.
Let's just thank the god of privilege, privilege.
That's the name.
Whatever.
How have you been?
I never ask about you.
I've been good.
There's not much to tell.
Seven dry cleaners.
I keep everything legit.
My maid won't seem to do her work.
But other than that, life is good.
If those are the only jigsaw pieces you have a Brandon's
life, that could be anything.
Seven dry cleaners are made that won't.
We don't know if he's in a giant mansion
or a tiny William Gibson techno coffin.
Pretty sure it's a deluxe apartment in the sky.
Moving on up.
What was the thing in the Jefferson's theme?
It was that beans don't burn in the kitchen?
That's right.
And what doesn't burn on a grill?
I think it's something else doesn't burn on the grill.
Something else doesn't burn on a grill.
I have to get the whole thing out of my head.
Are you offended that I'm coming to you for the answer to this?
No, no.
It's a mystery to all people.
Right.
This is a, I've been asking Brandon as a representative
of the 70s, not anything else.
This is going to be, I feel so bad because so many people
are on Reddit are going to be like, oh!
What's this?
They need that though.
They need that more than we do.
I think they might be calming down now though.
I don't know.
Nah.
It's funny how we have moods and our moods
affect our perception of the world.
Like right now I feel like the world is more comfortable
with racism.
Where did I get that?
Why did I decide that?
What did I, it's nothing, it's the answer
is it's something I ate.
It's like not, it's not something I saw.
I didn't see somebody come out with a report on Reddit
that said we're going to be less sensitive now.
I think it's because of an epiphany I had.
I was eating breakfast with my girlfriend and her dad.
And I don't know, I don't know what got my mind on to it.
But then I just started realizing this thing about
epiphanies about like how you really,
I don't know, the good ones are just like dodoys.
They're not, when you explain them they're like, yeah,
I had that epiphany when I was 13.
But and I've had this one I feel several times.
But I really, there's a difference between that
and feeling it.
I really started to feel at breakfast
because I pulled out my phone and I wrote it down.
It was a hashtag epiphany in my bear notes app.
Like I got to remember this epiphany, which was just that.
Wait, what's bear notes app?
It's my latest app I'm trying.
Sorry, continue.
Bear, you can look it up in the App Store.
It's based on tags, tag clouds instead of, it's weird.
It's weird at first.
But if you get used to it, it could be good.
I don't know.
Why did I keel on that?
Here's my epiphany.
So if you are a machine or let's say an organism,
it really doesn't matter.
Organisms are machines.
You're a structure.
You have internal mechanisms.
You are capable.
You take things in.
And you put things out.
And so flowers do that.
Whales do that.
The earth does that.
Every system does that.
Every device does that.
We're all just systems, each of us individually.
So we take in good shit.
We take in bad shit.
And we're all different.
So there's different shit that's bad to every person.
If somebody says the N word on the freeway at me,
it makes me confused.
It made something different to you.
It's both bad things coming out of that person.
But I go for there's a lot of weird confusion
at the top of that.
My process is I'm like, is there lighting weird in my car?
What's with this person?
Are they blind?
I don't know.
Are they on my side?
And are they black?
And they're like high-fiving me for my awesome driving.
So the definition of what a bad thing is is subjective.
It's not about like, oh, some people
are in such a good mood that I listen to podcasts
where there's people that they have problems
and there's people that want to help them with their problems.
So for those people, what you and I would consider toxic,
that person considers an episode of a podcast.
So not to get too derailed with that,
but the larger point being you have all this shit that
comes at you.
And it's all good and bad mixed up shit.
And then we all have the ability as systems to, first of all,
we're constantly growing and reprogramming ourselves,
restructuring ourselves, just as cells and plants
and factories and us.
And this stuff comes in.
So we, first of all, the miracles
that we do have the ability to take in diarrhea,
not literally, but verbal diarrhea,
such as I'm spouting right now.
Or really horrible toxic, horrible shit,
like what you see on Facebook or Twitter.
Toxicity.
Or someone attacking you in a comment section
because you said something wrong or bad shit.
We have the ability to turn it into good shit,
the classic example being that if I have a terrible life,
if everybody picks on me, if I feel awful,
if I have feelings of anxiety and depression and things,
because of the shit that's happening to me in my life,
but then I write a play about it.
And then everyone goes and sees the play
and walks out feeling really good.
Not because it's a feel good play,
but because they saw a good play.
Like there's catharsis, like you can see a depressing play
and be like, wow, he fucking nailed it.
He knows exactly how depressed I am.
And then some of your depression comes out.
The bottom line being, as we all know,
you can take in bad stuff and you can put out good stuff.
And in fact, that's kind of what we try to do all the time.
So now that times have gotten, for most of us,
very challenging, there's a lot of shit in the air.
There's a lot of bad stuff coming at us.
It's just sort of sitting at breakfast
and just thinking about all these podcasts I've
been listening to where people do like they just,
I don't have this shit that rolls off their back
that I find amazing.
I was like, how come you don't just tell that person
to go fuck themselves?
Like why are you trying to still understand this person
and help them with their in-laws for your little podcast?
It's not just greed.
It's like you're Canadian or something.
Like, I don't know what it is.
I guess I should promote the podcast I'm describing.
It's on the Gimlet network.
It's called Heavyweight.
It's this guy, John, something.
And he just makes his friends and family's business,
all his business.
And he's like a really friendly guy.
He tries to resolve long, unresolved issues,
family members that aren't speaking to each other for decades.
Are they on the show?
Yeah, the person, a friend or a relative or someone
that he knows will come to him with something
that's been weighing on them.
I think that's why it's called Heavyweight.
And then he'll just get up all in there shit
and make phone calls and arrange meetings.
And I was just kind of marveling at the guys.
Because there's people that attack him.
There's people that criticize him.
There's people that are engaged in vampiric toxicity
towards him or shit.
Like, his famous episode is the one
where a friend of his who is a guy who gave Moby all
of those black people LPs that Moby used to launch us
and to become a billionaire.
Like, oh, I don't got a fish bone on my plate.
And then Moby, the guy that gave
that disc set to him or whatever, is also a musician.
But he's not Moby, and he's not actively.
So there's a whole episode about him wanting to just basically
get near, talk to Moby again.
And it was weird, and it was awkward, and this guy that
gets involved in this shit, he actively gallops into shit
that I would be like, no, fuck that.
Nope, nope, nope.
And so I was sitting at breakfast kind of like digesting,
having binge listened to this guy's podcast.
And I just like, I am a bad person.
I should be after all I have gotten after all.
It's like, why am I still fucking?
Why am I so sensitive if this guy isn't?
And I was like, wait, well, sensitivity, he's sensitive too.
And I was like, ah, sensitivity is different
from fucking systemic shutdown.
You can be sensitive to garbage.
You can be like, that guy's lying, that guy's racist,
that guy's full of shit, that guy's kind of full of shit,
but trying to convince himself he's not full of shit.
So you can have a really laser resolution of bullshit
detection, and that person wants something from me,
that person's a drag, that person's an energy drain.
But you don't need to.
It's not a superior machine that recognizes that shit,
and then in response to anything less than perfect,
it goes, pew.
And that's kind of what we're doing probably a little too
much of, is going like, oh, no, no, no.
You just said that, and nope.
That either makes me blow a whistle that shrieks
at the top at 1,000 decibels.
Is that, if that's your function, that's good.
You should stay that sensitive, and you should then
be the alarm person.
But if you're not that person, if that's not
your full function, if you're not helping things
by blowing that alarm, or if it's not making you personally
happy too, use the other shit you could do with all that stuff
coming into you too.
I don't know.
There's this thing, the Jerusalem, the Trump
announcement that he's going to make.
See, he took a bad thing, and he made a wonderful, go on.
Where he announced that he's going to move the US Embassy
to Jerusalem and make a big hubbub.
And the world has freaked out about it.
This is to your point.
But the truth is, it takes years for that to occur.
He has to get funding, architects have to draw up plans.
But people are acting like he's going to do this within the next
week.
And that's sort of how we've gotten.
We've gotten to this place where he says something.
Somebody said something.
We hear something, and we automatically
freak out, not really looking back and being like,
well, no girl scout is going to join the Boy Scouts.
The Boy Scouts just said girls could join.
And it's because we started off the year
so hypersensitive, which is a reaction to any trauma,
that now when we hear it's raining,
we legitimately are like, well, it's probably
going to be one of those rains.
So you're exactly right.
I think to our credit, if we are on the left,
I don't think we're actually, I think a lot of that is like,
we're just so frustrated waiting for a referee
to blow a whistle that we're just like,
our booze are getting louder, and we're just incredulous.
And we just want, we want at any moment, we're like, well,
maybe this is the thing, because this is like holy land.
This is none of his business.
I remember in the beginning, there was a whole buffet set
out there.
I would sit there on Twitter and write these threads,
because I was trying to make my religious relatives
or people that were Christian.
I was trying to go like, he missed that prayer breakfast
or whatever.
Remember when that was a big deal?
And I was like, aha, so he missed a prayer breakfast.
Now, I ask you this, is this man a Christian?
But I was really just like, all we've been doing ever since
is we're just trying to find his off switch.
Now, our trying to find his off switch
is really making us flail a lot.
And I think we should continue to try to find his off switch.
But I think we should explore more sides of him
than, obviously, the front-facing side,
because I don't think Donald Trump puts his off switch
on his front-facing side.
I think he, but more importantly, I mean,
going back to my mechanism metaphor,
clearly this is a man running on our tears.
I mean, we are putting out terror and sadness and outrage.
And it is fueling him.
And that's fine.
That doesn't mean to stop being outraged,
stop crying.
That doesn't mean go numb.
It just means we know that he's already playing the game
I'm describing.
He's a long time ago, either by virtue of sociopathology
or some epiphany of his own he had.
He was like, well, why should I keep on?
What am I supposed to shut down every time my mom yells at me?
Am I supposed to shut down every time my dad punches
my mom in front of me and looks at me and says,
if you cry, then you're a woman like her?
Yeah, I'm just speculating the kind of childhood he probably
had given his current pathology.
I took a little bit of psych in high school.
I think something blue.
College prep?
What's that?
College prep psychology?
Yeah, I think it was worth a college credit, possibly.
Yeah.
Yeah, but I mean, this is Milwaukee Public Schools.
I don't think that, or no, it's Brown Deer.
All right, look, don't write letters.
I'm not a fraud.
Look into my transcripts.
No, you had a class in high school.
I took a psych class.
Yeah, in high school.
I believe it was probably worth a college credit.
No.
OK, it probably wasn't.
OK, they showed us many, many slideshows about things
like gestalt.
Right.
I took that class, too.
So anyways, this guy, either because he's a monster
or because he's not even going to say the words, I guess I am,
that he's like more evolved, like in that respect,
that he's like, well, what are you supposed to do?
Are you supposed to shut down when someone
says you're a racist douchebag?
Are you supposed to take that information in
and through a elaborate system of mirror turn it
into fucking Trump food and eat it?
And that's what he's done.
He's like, yes, I'm hearing I'm racist again.
I call that a victory.
He's generating victory for himself.
I don't want to comment.
I don't want to be his life coach.
But most of us aren't dealing with him personally
on a day-to-day basis.
And what we are dealing with is mostly for better or for worse,
we're dealing with people digitally.
And so I just have this epiphany in my head
where I'm like, I have been too defensive, too fucking like,
it's like if someone is feeding into you,
they're going like, hey, you're fat.
Season six of Community Sucked.
Season three of Rick and Morty Sucked.
You're a cuck, you're, again, with the fat.
I can't, people aren't really that, I don't know.
They give you chemicals and a little line
that they've stuck into you.
You're receiving it.
And then you just take it in.
You process it.
There is like, if somebody says, we should make America great
again by getting rid of all the brown people,
you could process that and go, I think it's great
that you think America's great.
I love America, too.
Oh.
Ha ha ha ha.
Now.
I'm pretty sure you're talking to a person
with a mental disability.
And at which point, to continue to take what they're saying
seriously.
Well, no, we're not, we're not, we're not trying.
We're not wasting time on this person.
You're correct to correct me on that.
Once someone calls people brown people,
I'm pretty much like, oh, no.
I didn't know those were my words.
I don't know this person, but.
This motherfucker hates math.
You first and foremost, you're correct about that.
We're not going to get in arguments with these people.
We're not going to try to change them.
But, but, but, you know, what we're finding, I think,
is that these people, when we do the other thing besides
try to change them, which is like, like, just kind of like,
fucking like, I don't know, whatever you call it.
Like, sometimes, a lot of times, I just block them.
I don't know, they might be getting energy from that.
They are.
Yeah, you should mute them instead.
They don't know.
Yeah, but if you mute them and they directly tweet you,
the mute is not, not function.
Not anymore.
They upgraded the mute button?
As far as I understand, I've never seen anything
from a muted person unless I saw it out.
But it used to be like that.
That's what I do now.
Now I have like 1,000 muted people.
At one point, I had 9-11 muted people.
I would just mute, I would go through and mute everyone
and then unmute you, Elon Musk.
People do that.
And yeah, like my girlfriend or whatever, you know,
like, and that would be called, I guess, Facebook?
Or like, yeah, pretty much.
All right, well.
There is a little bit, you're correct about the overload.
There's a bit of an overload and we are reacting now
instinctually without really, you know.
I think we're getting more signals.
And if, in general, and if more signals are bad
and we're used to less signals and now we're
getting more bad signals, we're going to kind of
frazzle to some extent, right?
Yeah, it's tough because you start,
you want to, the accurate language you use now
all has all these horrible connotations.
Because I want to use a word like trigger.
And I want to say like, in other words, kids,
if a stranger has the ability to trigger you
into negative behavior, are you a superior machine?
Are you a superior machine to the triggering machine?
Or are you losing a fucking AI battle?
You know, if someone has the ability to shut you down,
to make you numb, to make you simply scream at the top
of your lungs and point at the thing and say,
bad thing, bad thing.
There's gray areas here.
I don't want to say that any of those things are
necessarily inappropriate responses.
But I'm going to start asking myself the question like,
well, do I want to be a superior machine or not?
A superior machine is like, I'm taking in a little bit
of nitrogen, a little bit of oxygen,
a little bit of carbon dioxide, a little bit of carbon monoxide,
a little bit of aluminum.
It's all this person just saying some random fucking
second amendment, like a justifying thing,
or he's a flat earth or he just doesn't like me
because I'm fatter.
I said something bad about Jim Henson once.
And they're just trolling me or they're just like
barfing up on me.
It's like, the barf, if I'm a superior machine,
there's, even if it's one part per billion,
there's like nutrition in the barf.
And I just put it in my little barf processing stomachs.
Yeah, like dogs.
And then the rest passes through me.
Well, no-ish.
So you don't want the, if it's a white suit,
everybody's born with a beautiful white suit.
We all get our white suits.
It's three-piece, it's gorgeous.
You want to try and keep it clean?
You want to try and take care of it,
dry clean it when it needs to get dry clean.
And if somebody's flinging mud at you,
you don't want to keep visiting that joint
because it's about keeping the suit clean.
The same thing goes for your mind and your spirit.
Yeah, well, you move, you move the mechanism that you are
if you're in a place where you're,
where all the cords connecting to you are 99% barf
and 1% nutrition.
Yeah, you probably like, you've probably picked,
unless you figure out how to now take on a new organ
or something that actually turns barf into sunshine
or...
Say that once you have barf,
you identify that it's barf and you step around it.
You don't even try and get the nutrients from barf.
Or if you figure out how to turn barf into dramamine.
I don't know, I think...
And then you put dramamine out
and it goes back around the people
and they don't, and then they start barfing less.
And then it's like, if that is your job,
you know, like that's a thing that you are good at
and you enjoy doing.
You go stand in that place and you collect barf
and then you like, you put out this other chemical
and then the barf recedes
and people that are passing by go,
why are you doing that?
Don't feed the trolls and you go,
I'm not, I'm reducing barf.
You'll thank me later.
Or it's just something I enjoy doing.
If you don't enjoy doing it,
I think most importantly,
like yeah, you fucking like...
You know, you move that factory to a place
where the compositions are better enabling you
to put out good things.
Yes.
For sure.
We can both agree on that.
I just think there are some people out there,
I think we could have some of these trolls on our side
if they could start to understand that there's like a way.
People like...
There are people that troll
because they don't trust...
They don't trust dichotomy.
They don't trust systems that tell them
there's a difference between good and bad
and that there's only good and or bad.
And that those people,
they are able to be hypnotized by the bad guys
faster than they're able to be yelled at enough
by the good guys to pick a side.
I think that people who troll are speaking a language
that they are used to speaking
because they come from negative situations.
They don't even know that they're necessarily being negative.
I think that if you are a machine,
maybe you want to operate efficiently
and that fucking with these trolls is inefficient
and takes the energy from your machine, you know?
Because I think that you don't...
I'm not trying to save souls necessarily.
There's a bunch of people that are worth saving.
So I take that level of compassion
that you're expressing for these trolls
and I give it to people who are actually fighting for good.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, in that example, then it's like you're...
Yeah, so you're saying,
I, Brandon Johnson, my philosophy
represented like a 2D overhead map
where there's like lichen over here
and trolls over here and like...
There's a bridge.
Sunflowers over here.
It's like you're in a really specific position
where you put yourself
where you're able to expose yourself
to the ingredients you need
and then you're pumping help
to the people that you are saying deserve it,
you know, that need it.
They're like, oh, that person needs...
Like me, for instance,
if I don't have you in my life,
my altitude would be lower.
You pump me with levity chemicals.
Trying to make me cry, Harmon.
Trying to make me be a bitch up here.
I see you. It's not gonna work.
I mean, this epiphany is useless to you.
I knew that coming in.
This is the epiphany that I needed.
No, no, no.
I mean, I'm saying you're not somebody
that's functioning at a low enough level
to need this epiphany.
The things that you've said in the past
on the show when we've gotten to this area,
I know you get this.
I'm getting there now
because I've been to...
It's like, why am I letting so many things
in an uncontrollable world control me?
Well, this is the thing.
I think as we get there,
because we're always getting there,
regardless of what level,
one of the things that we pass on is the information.
So I'll make this real quick,
is that we've had to all mobilize,
but the older people have had to talk to the younger people
about how to do it
because they've been fighting for 40, 50 years, right?
So anybody who's 30 and under
didn't know how to get together and rally
and do all this shit.
So I kind of feel like it's everybody's duty to say,
this is the part of the journey that I would do like this,
so that you can continue to fight,
because you get this thing called oppression fatigue,
where you're really tired of taking in all the bad shit
and listening and trying to save puppies and people
at the same time,
and you get this roadmap that says,
okay, so this is how you do this.
And one of the ways that I always think you do it,
just my two cents, having fought for a long time,
is you really don't spend time on the people
who have very clearly executed
that they're not gonna come around,
and you really spend more time on the people
that are working hard in the streets to do what they do.
It's like you take that compassion for a troll,
like I said, and you give it to a mother of three
who's taking a bus every day,
and then you really do see it go farther.
Like if I save a troll,
I don't know that I'm helping anybody.
That motherfucker might still be selfish.
You aren't even engaging with the troll.
You're engaging with the shark fin
that the troll is putting above the water,
and they're only putting it above the water
because the rest of them is safe tucked away
and is not being engaged with.
That's what they come for is just to do this kind of shark thing.
If we look at them as machines,
because it'll make the metaphor easier for me,
like the bad guys are one of their techniques
is to just spray gas into the air
where no interaction with them whatsoever,
and no relationship with them,
and no desire for them to be one thing or another.
You're just breathing farts everywhere you go.
You go to Albertsons and everyone's in a bad mood
because just collectively everybody is convinced
that everyone hates each other in general.
I mean, this is just a function of the new thought wars
that we're having, the meme wars.
This is the former Soviet Union
tested this and demonstrated it
on all their little satellite states
that tried to break ranks.
We watched them hack and fucking troll them
and say, you're having a civil war down the street.
You're black people. Don't like your white people.
It's happening down the street from you
and the people in their homes going like,
I don't hear any mortar fire.
It's a massive confusion.
Gas, it's just gas.
You didn't have to ask for,
and so I guess part of my epiphany is like,
okay, so the air has changed.
It's changed.
So am I a person who's going to go buy a gun?
Yep.
But now that I'm thinking about it,
that was my reaction to worrying that people were going to die,
worrying that my family was going to be safe,
worrying that I couldn't take care of my dogs,
my housekeeper, my neighborhood, myself.
I let that fear make me go put money
into a mechanism of hatred and violence.
And it's because my gauges and pistons and things
were poorly designed for this change
in chemical compounds in the atmosphere.
Not poorly designed. They just needed upgrading.
We need to add some filters.
It feels like, I don't like the word filter
because it's part of what the bad guys are doing.
It's more like, take it all fucking in.
Take it in.
Michael, it's me, Kit.
This is the Knight Rider reference.
It was a show.
Michael, Kit says,
I'm detecting a change in the atmosphere.
Take it in and fucking study it.
Oh, there's a 10% increase in nitrogen
and a decrease in oxygen.
Okay, I'll work on a schematic for a part of my engine
that will be nitrogen-powered
that will generate more oxygen.
I don't know what that just means.
It starts with self-examination
and then it's awareness.
It's like, be aware of what's happening to you.
It's time to check in with yourself
about how you're feeling when you're feeling it.
And don't be afraid to say,
I feel sad. I feel like I want to give up.
I feel so angry. I feel like I want to smash somebody's face in.
But then you don't have to do any of that stuff to feel it.
You just examine those feelings and then you have a board meeting
inside your heart and go,
okay, so we're taking stuff in through our intake valves
that are making us violent and fearful and numb.
Let's figure out, let's just be aware of that for a week.
I wish there were somebody in the room
who knew a little bit about what we were talking about.
Do you think there is?
Well, I think you're recommending a guest order swap.
Let's get down with Ben Nelson.
Let's see what's going on.
All right, well, let's have our first guest come up, Ben Nelson.
And I'll tell you what he's doing in a second.
Oh, yeah.
I guess the reason I thought Brandon was recommending a guest swap
was because I don't know that Ben Nelson is...
I only know what Ben Nelson's objective is
in a very, very overview fashion.
Your project is a thing called Project Minerva?
The Minerva project, yeah.
And give us the fucking Wikipedia paragraph that I read.
Or I will.
So Minerva is effectively a way to create a university,
the way it's supposed to be.
So basically, everything that universities say they do,
teach people how to think critically,
teach people how to problem solve,
teach people how to understand other people,
interact effectively, communicate effectively,
communicate effectively.
Turns out they don't do any of those things.
The idea of like college, class shopping carts and stuff,
isn't that like related to the decline?
Because it's like not about a curriculum anymore,
it's about selling these digital products
that are actually supposedly pieces of an education?
Yeah, exactly.
Well, and you know, it's not even that anymore,
because what they're really selling isn't education, right?
I mean, if you think that universities are actually about education,
if you think that people choose universities
based on education, why are they spending so much money
on lazy rivers and campuses and tanning beds and sports teams?
They are, in fact, selling you first of all.
They're approaching you as a family.
They need the kid engaged.
They need the kid to say,
I want to go to that school because I might get late
and I might have fun.
I might not kill myself.
But simultaneously, the more important part of the family,
the parents need to go, oh, and after that, job placement.
Yeah, job placement and...
I think I was wrong.
I think I was wrong from your reaction.
Yeah, yeah.
I think there's one other thing which is, you know,
that colleges sell different packages to different students.
And one of the things that colleges don't talk about,
especially the Ivy League, the highly selective schools
that claim that they're need-blind, claim that,
oh, we don't really look at how wealthy you are,
which is a total lie,
they sell a very different package to rich kids
than they do to everyone else.
And the problem is rich kids, the top 1%,
are 50% of the students going to these schools.
50%.
Right?
And you can't do that if you really need blind.
So for them, the pitch is very, very different.
The pitch is, look at the theme park that you're going to be going to.
And yeah, you know, you got courses and this and that,
and you can choose whatever you want.
But look, between you and me, slash, between everyone,
once you get in, there are no Fs.
You take whatever courses you want.
There's no curriculum.
You're guaranteed a diploma.
Is that really a thing that's able to be transmitted,
dog whistled, if you will, to families?
Like, for instance, if someone was absolutely 100%
observably dyslexic, which is not a crime,
geniuses are dyslexic, but someone who has not treated it at all
and is therefore functionally illiterate,
cannot read a piece of paper publicly
without fucking up the words,
cannot form sentences without confusing us.
And then, like, but I still want to be president.
Like, there are, you're saying that,
because this is what boggles my mind.
I thought that there were, I mean, you said no Fs.
That's actually somehow broadcast out to the families.
Like, your kid won't get an F here.
Yeah, so one shockingly underreported story
from a couple of years ago was happening
at the University of North Carolina.
University of North Carolina,
the oldest public university in the United States.
Old Miss Daisy.
Yeah, there you go.
My alma mater.
So University of North Carolina
discovered shockingly three years ago
to nobody's knowledge that for the previous 18 years
they invented classes that didn't exist,
put them in a course catalog,
didn't bother assigning a room to them
because they never met,
and they were specifically in place
to enable several of their athletes
to get Phantom A's.
Now when this was discovered,
it was some secretary deep in the bowels
of the organization that took all the blame,
and everyone else, the head of the sports department,
the provost, the president, no one knew.
No one knew.
And when it was investigated by the accreditors
that people were supposed to actually be
watchdogging these folks, they said,
eh, you shouldn't do this again.
They gave way fake degrees.
Now people look at this and say, oh my god,
that's like flat out fraud.
And was that all athletes?
Because I feel like, I saw Johnny B. Good
with what's his name?
From whatever?
Anthony Michael Hall.
Sorry, Anthony.
You did great in season two.
I feel like that's been like,
since I was a kid,
that has always been an athlete thing.
It's much more pervasive.
And that's the real problem.
So the problem is that other universities
who looked at UNC and just passed judgment
and said, oh my god, the horror of that,
what they've done internally,
if you look at some of the most selective universities
in the country, what they do,
they just don't issue Fs to anybody.
So I'll give you the story.
A very, very, very selective university.
You've all heard the name.
I will protect the guilty by leaving out their name.
I had a friend who was a teaching assistant there.
Harvard.
And I'm not going to say exactly where.
It rhymes with Garver.
It rhymes with Mayo.
So the very short version is that
their rule was that you basically,
you only got grades based on tests,
and if you missed two of the tests,
it's 100% the final.
And there was a girl who missed both the midterms
and then skipped the final.
They didn't take any of the tests.
And when it was time to give her grades,
the TA gave her an F.
And the professor, when he looked at the F,
he said, who got an F?
He said, this girl didn't take a single test.
And he said, yeah, that's a C plus.
C plus.
Now, is this a, so...
That happened to me, I think, in astrology.
I definitely got an F on a test,
and I was like, C, and it was like, well,
that didn't happen.
Okay, so in that example,
that's a real life example,
but it's an anecdotal example.
So now, just tell us, like, why?
Who is that girl?
Why is that professor doing that?
Well, he did that because, actually,
the rules of the university,
so in elite institutions,
when you want to have half of your students to be rich,
you're going to have to make a lot of exceptions,
even at the very best universities.
That makes sense.
Damn it, I went to fucking Marquette,
and I had to drop out.
I got an F in English because they busted my balls.
You didn't go to a,
you didn't go to a leading math university math.
Every time I class, my grade went down a thing.
I was like, this is harder than high school.
So actually, that's the sad part,
because the higher you climb,
the more this grade inflation is occurring.
Oh, my, always knew it,
never heard it from a qualified individual.
Now, does this have anything to do with loans?
Well, not so much because these schools
don't really give out loans, right?
Because, and especially to the students that,
you know, can afford to pay $70,000 a year.
Who can do that?
Half of their students.
Wow.
That's how bad it is.
Fucking idiots, we've raised a nation of rich idiots.
Wow.
Privileged rich idiots.
Privileged.
And not necessarily smarter or better equipped
to go into the workforce?
No, not at all.
I mean, in fact, if you look at how employers rate
the quality of graduates from universities,
it's abysmal, abysmal.
96% of chief academic officers at universities
say that they prepare their students well for the job.
Right?
The job force.
This is what parents really care about.
11% of employers agree.
Right.
11%.
Yeah, I mean, I think that's been,
that's been like the last 10 years or so.
It's like that bubble burst where somebody bothered,
as with Enron, somebody finally said,
come on, we need to see a ledger.
Right.
And then after a lot of hemming and high,
it's like, yeah, no, no one gets a job that went to college.
Basically, you, but however,
there's a meta channel to that,
which is if you can afford to send your kid to Harvard,
correct me if I'm wrong,
I'm going to get a little classist here
in the opposite direction.
If you can afford to send your kid to Harvard,
you, and you don't send your kid to Harvard,
you're kneecapping your kid
because your kid's a member of the 1%.
He's garbage larva.
He's blue blood, Mayflower, fucking, parasitic.
Parasitic DNA.
And he needs his Harvard UV ray
that is tanning booth to pass through
so he can be a baked in Harvard fucking moron
and go get his oil wells and his fucking fucking shit back.
So I got good news for you.
I got good news for you.
That's a myth.
Okay.
So they actually, somebody did that study.
They looked at people accepted by Harvard,
all the people accepted by Harvard,
and they looked at the people who chose not to go
and compared them to people who went.
Turns out that if you are from the top four
of the five socioeconomic strata, right,
so basically the top 80%, right,
it makes zero difference whether or not
you chose to go to Harvard or to state school.
Where it does help, and it does help,
is if you come from the 20% poorest households in the country,
which make up a tiny, tiny, tiny fraction
of Harvard students,
those students actually do have some better
future earnings, et cetera,
if they went to Harvard path versus not,
but it's not that much.
Yeah.
It's usually because they started out at zero.
Correct.
Because they started with a huge, huge, huge amount
of downside, and they do meet some people
that will help them out.
So that does help.
But guess what?
What makes you successful in life?
And this is actually a damnation of universities
because I don't think it should be this way.
But what makes you successful in life is just
how good you are, right?
But what universities should be doing
is they should actually be adding value.
They should actually be teaching to do those things.
There should be places where you go and you go,
I don't know, I play a little bit of piano,
but I've always liked English class.
I came here to be a journalist major,
and they go, wrong, you're Billy Joel.
You know, and they funnel, and they make you into Billy Joel.
That's what any school should be.
That's what any household should be.
Your kids should be born with proclivities
that are natural, interests that are natural.
Sometimes those are contrasting.
You put a piano in front of your kid.
You put a football in front of your kid.
You put a lockpick in front of your kid.
It's just in D&D terms.
Maybe they're going to be an expert thief.
And they respond to stuff, and they don't respond to stuff.
You know, and you break all, by the way,
as a subset of that.
You know, you break all gender norms and all that stuff
because regardless of what we think about this stuff anyways.
But who cares?
I'm patting myself on the back for what am I barfing you at?
I'm very curious about one thing,
because I just want to make sure I got the picture here.
Because that girl in that example,
when that professor says that F is actually a C+,
is he saying that because of that girl's background?
No, he's saying it because it doesn't.
So the poor kids are benefiting from the no F process.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Everybody goes to C school.
Because they're customers.
They're customers, right?
So nobody wants to get on a cold happy meal.
Well, the teachers, they get rated on how good their students do.
Bingo.
Right?
And so in order to give the girl an F,
there is a way to give her an F.
After she missed the first midterm,
they have to call her into a teacher-student conference
and have a written down corrective action plan.
Even though, in the rules, she could have missed the midterm.
Then after she missed the second midterm,
they had to bring her back in and have her sign
on a different corrective action plan,
because the first one clearly didn't work.
And then, and only then, if she then misses the final,
just doesn't show up, then they can give her an F.
People don't bother doing it.
Wow.
Right?
And so, but there's one other thing that the university should be doing,
which is what you were talking about at the beginning of the show,
which is those filters, right?
The ways to train your mind to deal with what comes at you.
That is the job of universities.
That is the definition of higher education.
Universities don't do that.
And instead, we're giving C pluses to absolute morons
that can go on to become legislators.
And we're giving also, look, I'll say it,
I'm going to sound like one of the bad guys.
We're giving safe spaces to kids that complain that catcher and their ride
made them uncomfortable because it has the word fag in it.
Absolutely.
Well, this seems all pretty terrible.
I wish there was someone here that had a plan
because we're good at complaining,
but if only there was someone, help me.
There's got to be a better way.
I want to know how we got here and where we're going.
So where are we going?
So we believe that we've sketched out something that works.
You and your improv troupe.
Exactly.
You know, we have a whole group of people though.
So we actually started a new university.
We started a university program that's actually part of the KGI,
which is one of the Claremont colleges here in Southern California.
And our students go through a completely reimagined four-year
undergraduate curriculum.
It's accredited.
It's very, very selective, very hard to get in.
But unlike the traditional profile of other universities,
we just choose not to discriminate.
It was an odd choice.
And so we charge across the board.
You don't discriminate among the different kinds of black people
for the black people program.
There's no black person program.
Well, how do you tell the black students from the...
We don't.
So here's the crazy thing about what we do.
We have no quotas.
We have no buckets.
We have no slots.
We don't say, oh, you have to compete for this position.
If you qualify for a program, it's very hard to qualify.
But if you qualify, you get in.
And we charge for tuition fees, room and board,
the whole thing less than $30,000 a year.
So less than half of what the Ivy League charge,
which is $60,000 to $70,000 now.
And despite the fact that we charge less than half,
80% of our students can't afford it.
What's a state school cost?
About the same.
And that's subsidized by the government.
We're not.
I'm sorry.
I'm going to pick my nose right on camera
because there's a trapdoor bugger.
And look, I can either live with it or I can fucking confront it.
There's something about it.
Now it's gone.
I'll let Reddit show that in replay.
I picked my nose.
I do it with my thumb.
That's why my nose looks like Harrison Ford's at 44.
Now, would a guy like me make it into your program?
So I want to try to, I'm going to try to recap what you said
so that we can try.
Because I'm dumb and drunk.
You're saying that you, because first of all,
you haven't built a brick and mortar building yet.
You're saying you're using existing universities,
but you started a program.
We started an undergraduate program.
Yeah.
And what we do is rather than using kind of a campus-based
philosophy, we use a city-based philosophy.
So our students, they actually spend their first year,
not in Southern California, but in San Francisco.
And they live in a residence hall in the middle of the city.
And then the next three years, they travel as a group.
They live in six different countries all over the world.
What?
So they go from San Francisco.
They go to Seoul, Hyderabad, Berlin, Buenos Aires,
London, Taipei.
And they come back to San Francisco to graduate.
Are you a Bond villain?
Well, I'm not.
But perhaps our students will be Bond heroes.
Finally, they're placed in a pit in a broken pool queues
between them.
The one super student that emerges from that pit
goes to the moon.
Actually, it's to go to Harvard.
No, but I just, please forgive me.
So you're saying it's a program.
It's not a school.
It's not a geographically located thing.
It's a program.
It's geographically located.
It's just not located on a campus.
It's located in the cities.
OK.
But everywhere these people are going, the faculty,
you're not invading existing schools and saying,
let's piggyback on your infrastructure.
You have your own teachers, your own curriculum.
We have our own professors, our own curriculum.
And the curriculum, the way it's structured is,
in the first year, they spend the entire first year
training their minds.
They learn four systems of thought.
We're talking about complex systems, basically.
We're talking about, at the beginning, how we are all
complex systems, right?
Anywhere from people to animals to...
The first year is how to think.
The first year is systems of thinking, right?
So how to use logic and reasoning and statistics.
How to look at the world around you
and understand how things work when data isn't clear.
How to think about unintended consequences
and effective interactions.
How to think about how to communicate effectively.
So one of the things that you were talking about
is one of the things we actually teach.
It's called audience, right?
Hashtag audience, which is a habit of mind
to understand who it is that you're talking to
before you start talking, right?
To actually understand how are they going to receive
what I'm saying?
And by the way, there's the corollary to that,
which is, why are they saying those things to me?
What are they actually...
What is the question behind the question
or the statement behind the statement?
So that's like communication theory.
So that's part of...
Effective communication.
Well, that seems like that's compatible
with modern problematization.
Yes.
To pronounce it in the original French.
Problematization, which can be...
Which I heard a student explaining to me about
that you're picking apart things and then I looked it up.
Like, what is this?
It's like a sort of digestive process
of any piece of information.
You can just look around your world
and start corroding it.
Correct.
Which...
And you don't like the word filter, which is right.
I think about it as lenses.
We give you a hundred different lenses
to sharpen your view of the world.
Don't lens this filter light?
Okay.
That's true.
They focus, they focus, they focus light, right?
Okay, I'm just saying.
But it is fantastic to...
Yeah, because I feel like if there's one thing
off of it, I'm Generation X.
I'm the David Cross, Jeanine Garofalo,
Brandon Johnson generation.
I floated my boat for the longest time.
Brandon and I have talked about this,
how our generation kind of...
We weren't like millennials, however, we were...
You know, lazy is lazy.
Like, we learned how to be anti-corporate
when we were 25.
We learned how Jamba Juice is just fucking bullshit.
It's all sugar.
Everything with a little C in a circle
or a TM on it is bullshit.
And everything in the corporate is bullshit.
Money is bullshit and all this stuff.
We didn't...
And then the millennials started rubbing us
the wrong way because they're like,
I don't know, I love recycling.
But if the president tells me to do it,
my mom's my best friend.
And they're like, these people are going to be fascists
if they intersect with the right president.
And I am on record in this podcast of saying that
if you can bear it, scroll back through this
horrible fucking podcast.
However, I also went and bought a gun
and some things didn't go my way.
I've also said horrible things and made rape jokes.
All right.
So don't go back.
Don't go back.
The place where we intersect is I think
like our generation, my generation is like...
That's like a little bit of paprika, a little pepper.
It's like, could we please just change lenses
constantly and always look at everything
and see who's gaining and who's losing
and question everything and kind of like
be jaded about it a little bit?
Absolutely.
But you don't need to be jaded.
You just have to actually just look at it.
You actually have to get down to the core
of what the issues are, right?
And I think that's actually where our generation...
We were primed.
I think probably this is why, you know,
I came up with this concept, which is
when I went to college, that's what I was primed for.
I was primed for exactly that.
I wanted to go to college.
Well, in movies and TV, that's what it always is.
It's always like these crazy thematic
John Hausmann's at the front going,
I expect you to work so much harder than you ever...
And then the people turn their papers in
and it's like, look, I'm sorry,
professor, I just didn't agree with you on this one.
And that's why you call me.
Everything like colleges as depicted in our culture
are these places where you're fucking...
The bullshit starts off campus.
That's why I can't state.
That's why they...
That's why I can't state tip top.
It's like they fucking invaded the goddamn
Pentagon of culture.
Our children, our youth.
You're allowed to protest.
You're allowed to...
They sent the National Guard onto a campus
and someone got shot and it was like,
this is over now.
You fucked up.
Just as when a journalist getting shot
in the roaring 20s is the reason organized crime
got shut the fuck down.
You shut a journalist.
It was like, always there was this respect
for these things that should have kept me safe.
This is a heavy podcast.
No, it's a selfish one.
It's where I come to just plea with the cameras.
I go, can you hear the shelling?
Someone send me blood.
Please, someone send us blood.
What are you, Dan?
I'm an O-positive.
You know what?
I think you should be a little more O-negative sometimes.
That's the problem with your generation.
So, okay.
I want to continue to talk to you.
We have a full show tonight.
We've also got...
I think somebody that's going to blend very well with you,
I think.
That or we're going to get...
The tanks are going to roll through the building
once the two of you are together.
But I just want to...
Just a little personal background.
Come on, Ben Nelson.
Stop avoiding intimacy.
Who are you?
How'd you end up on this warpath?
How'd I end up on the warpath?
It was pretty simple.
I went to college, idealistic, 18-year-old,
assuming John Hausman will be teaching me all of my classes.
But also that you'd be allowed to be John Kuzak in a sure thing.
That was the other half of the college dream,
was that you could go,
you know what?
I'm a fucking whiz English major.
I'm going to skip the midterm,
but I'm going to make it up on the...
You know, it's like you cut classes.
That was part...
You're grown up now.
You're not a high school student anymore.
You're an adult.
You make your choices.
And a lot of college dramas would feature that moment
where the kid would have to come to terms.
It's like, yeah, but you're scheduling your time
and you're picking your priorities.
Yeah, and in fact, I found that I could schedule my time completely
because I never needed to go to class
because the classes were...
I mean, they just read books out loud to you
and I could read them on my own.
Yeah, that's what my college experience was like.
Yeah, and I didn't like that.
I actually wanted to learn something.
I could just buy a textbook.
Exactly, right?
And so I thought that, you know,
choice in college should be made when I was ready for it.
Right?
I'm actually not a big fan of choice right at the beginning
because I'm still a kid.
I have no idea what I'm doing at that point.
High school's over, you piece of shit.
And part of that should be like the mama cat
drops a crippled mouse, like not a dead one.
Yeah.
Meaning you can go do stand-up Wednesday nights.
Right, right.
And then your grade's going to lower it down just a little bit.
You're going to get enough free agency.
You can make those choices, exactly.
I'm just saying I should have had better grades at Marquette
if there's one thing we can establish.
I should not have gotten an F in English.
It is.
I've been walking around that.
I need to go to Gimlet Media with my heavyweight episode
about how I need to confront my college TA.
Why did you get an F?
It was a systemic thing.
Were you not taking the drafts?
Literally, they tell you your grade drops a grade level
if you skip a class.
Okay.
I'm dead.
Wow.
That's amazing.
I never had that.
So it wasn't about skill.
They were also starting a new thing called cooperative education,
which is where the class shows up.
There's a TA.
The TA breaks everybody into groups.
Boom.
And the group gets a grade.
Shares a grade.
Oh, yeah.
Right, sure.
So that was very offensive to my young, like,
if you had transplanted me into today, like I was, you know,
I was at risk of alt-right indoctrination.
But see, here's what I would make the argument.
I would make the argument that if your university did its job,
you wouldn't have missed any classes.
You would have gone to class because it would have actually,
you would have seen your mind develop.
You'd say, oh my God, I am smarter this week than I was last week,
and I'm not going to miss out on that opportunity.
And sometimes you do have to put in some structure.
The problem is when you put in structure,
and then the university doesn't deliver.
You got to show up, and then you show up, and you're like,
why don't I show up?
You show up, and then your TA is reading Ray Bradbury
and texting while you sit in a circle of desks
with all your fellow freshmen going,
I don't know what you want to do.
Exactly.
What if we wrote a paper about licorice?
Oh, so, OK.
So not to avoid intimacy, I came up with this idea
when I was a freshman, basically how to fix the curriculum
of my university.
And I spent four years trying to argue for people to listen.
Nobody cared.
Oh, they must have loved you.
They didn't even care.
And now that I'm here, I'd like to put up some wallpaper.
So, you know, I tried for four years, and I gave up.
Wow.
And I said, what can I do?
I couldn't do anything.
I was on all these committees and all the rest.
Nothing could happen.
So I gave up, and I said, you know,
I think education is kind of important.
I think it's kind of important for universities
to actually educate students.
And my guess is this is going to have some bad effects
in the real world, but who knows, right?
Who do I know?
I'm an, you know, uneducated 21-year-old.
I just have a university degree.
So I went out into the real world,
and then I encountered human beings.
And I encountered human beings in positions
of pretty dramatic levels of decision-making.
And they were intelligent, high IQ.
They were well-meaning.
They wanted to do good things.
And they were making awful, awful decisions
that impacted a lot of people's lives, right?
I saw it in the working world, corporate world.
People were like making decisions,
and companies were going out of business
and making bone-headed moves.
I saw it obviously in politics.
I saw it everywhere.
And it just got worse and worse and worse.
And by the way, it wasn't even a partisan thing, right?
I could even track when, you know,
an era has gone by when you look fondly back at any,
any, you know, government that we had over the past 20-some years.
And you say, well, look, you know,
you had Congress controlled on the right, on the left, et cetera.
You never look back and say, oh, my God, boy,
wasn't that like a look at what, you know,
the House of Representatives was able to do in 1996
or what did the Senate were able to do in 2002 or 2007?
These were generally not well-functioning organizations, right?
And they've just gotten progressively worse over time.
You are an educational activist.
Yeah, absolutely.
You're a disruptor.
No.
You're an obstructionist.
We don't believe in disruption.
We want to reform.
Yeah, that's super interesting because nobody is standing up
for the rest of us in terms of getting educated.
And it does seem as though universities have gotten more about
can we do business in terms of agriculture?
Can we do medicine?
Can we do law?
Can we do business?
They don't do architecture.
They don't do dance.
They don't do art anymore.
They don't do any of the things that really fuel those three things
that I listed initially.
And again, from our perspective, totally right.
And the most tragic, they no longer do general education.
General education is the most important role of an undergraduate degree.
That's why it's called an undergraduate degree.
It's supposed to train the mind so that when you then figure out
what you want to do, you go to get a graduate degree
or you go into the workforce or what have you
and then use the general systemic thinking, those general ideas.
This all goes back to capitalism.
Well, that's an easy thing to say.
Because it goes back to when I'm 15 years old in 1989
in Brown, Deer, Wisconsin, it's happening around me.
I'm not aware of it yet.
But looking back on it, I'm aware that programs are being lifted and pulled.
Now, some of them are...
Well, actually at that time, all the programs that were being lifted
and pulled were like trade programs.
My best friend Dave Friedel, who's been on the podcast and stuff,
he was a huge beneficiary of the...
There was a program at my high school where,
if you were really interested in food service,
you could take classes at our high school and then there was an internship
and there was all these things.
And he was like one of the last people through that chute
and was able to...
He's not now Wolfgang Puck.
He's now a fucking coder.
He's got a digital job.
But he was able to not slip through the cracks and fall into fucking hell
because he wasn't a guy...
He had a different kind of...
He didn't excel on tests or in geometry or whatever,
but he was fucking nailing it in these food service classes.
There was programs in every public high school.
There would be like tendrils going into...
You're a dirt ball.
That's what I affectionately call them.
We have a fucking auto shop at our high school
and then also we have paths for you.
They are not like in the old world European class system
like, oh, you were born in this tax bracket,
so you're going to be a mechanic.
It's more like, hey, you can't stop making horrible jokes to the teacher after class
and you don't also care about isosceles triangles.
But there are opportunities.
There's fingers everywhere for all of our kids.
You could end up being a genius, proving that you were a genius
in something that wasn't necessarily testing well in this or that area.
That's what was happening when I was 15 going on all around me.
Then the follow-up to that is really that they started caving in on the other side.
The school papers started shutting down.
The first time after I went to visit my school paper editor,
he's like, no, no more school paper.
You were one of the last ones.
We don't train kids to be creative anymore.
We train them to pass English tests.
Now, the obvious answer to all of this,
and we've all watched everyone in my audience have probably seen these documentaries,
it's because of the government agencies who are, I guess, accountable to their voters
that say to the school districts, oh, you've got to make your kids smarter.
They're terrible people now. They're rapists and murderers and carjackers.
Make them smarter.
Then the schools go, okay, we're going to, and then this weird thing happens
where the tests become, everyone's just being trained to pass tests.
Otherwise, the schools lose their funding and all this stuff.
Then meanwhile, on the 1% side, all of these campuses used to be the places where,
fuck society, fuck your parents even.
Yeah, they paid for tuition, but they paid tuition because, you know what,
this is a burgeoning industry, this idea of shaping your young adult mind.
Your parents are going to pay 50 grand and they're going to get a hippie spit out of this chute,
and they're going to be like, what the fuck did I pay for him?
We're going to be like a genius.
There was leeway there, but then from all sides,
you've been telling me about this.
There was this shift in the 80s, 90s, where it was basically, in general,
financial institutions started hanging out at the bars where government hung out at
and started going, hey, you want a pack of cigarettes?
Follow me to my van.
And then all government became slowly, like it metastasized this entire thing.
The separation of government and business just disappeared,
and now government has just taken it up the butt,
and they're not using that derogatorily, because they're enjoying it,
and they have a right to do it.
Really, we need new colloquialism.
We need new ways of stating, like, we need a new word for pussy,
and we need to do it.
I've been thinking that.
You can't be David Mamet anymore.
You're going to swallow my cum, you fucking faggot pussy.
We need all curse words.
You might have an important point about dynamics.
So I don't know if this was a nefarious plan,
but it certainly evolved this way.
And again, I think it's a lot because of unintended consequences.
So give me an example of, at least from my perspective, a lot of these things changed.
In the early 1980s, U.S. News and World Report came out with ranking of colleges.
And I would argue that that event actually accelerated all of these previous inclinations
that the institutions had, but never really acted upon,
because it was never really in their interest.
All of a sudden, they're in their interest to do stupid things,
like restrict the number of students that come to the university,
because they wanted to have low acceptance rates,
and then have a lot of professors for every student.
But if you don't actually want the professor to teach the students,
you want them to be in the lab doing research,
and then you want them to spend as much money as possible on that professor to do research
so that you would go up in the rankings.
And if you did that, guess what?
You need a lot of rich kids to support this constricted number of seats.
And the reverse would be a party school.
You would show pictures of the football team.
You'd show pictures of great fans and people spring breaking it up.
Exactly.
Both of those have in common, and all of that has in common with, meanwhile,
in the inner cities of kids being pushed through that can pass tests.
All of that goes back to the hydra of capitalism, which isn't a bad thing,
unless, well, maybe it is a bad thing.
Well, it's bad because what happens in the outcome is that if the school,
and this is kind of where it comes back to the banks and everybody else,
those institutions want to hire, ultimately,
and wind up hiring the sons and daughters of rich people.
If you trust the US dollar to measure everything,
if you trust it to give equivalence,
everything is going to have a price.
Human life is going to have a price.
We know this.
It's right under our nose.
We know that medicine doesn't work privately.
We know that education is not working privately.
Well, but it can if you had people think systemically.
So if the government, rather than saying,
we're just going to subsidize universities and take a blind eye,
if in 1965, when federal financial aid got implemented,
and all they said would be, any university is eligible for federal financial aid,
if and only if the cost of time that university rise at the rate of inflation or lower.
If they just did that, you know how much every university would cost now?
What we cost, what we cost in tuition and fees.
I wasn't listening to that because I was thinking about,
because I've been trying to bring up our second guest,
because I want to plug this keymaster into this gatekeeper.
I don't know if you guys are going to fight or blow up New York.
But let's bring up our old friend, Josh Andraski.
Oh, yeah.
Looking fresh.
Hi, hello.
So socialists are dressing differently now since the last time we talked.
Yeah, I figured I wouldn't wear a flannel.
And I'm instead wearing a Shannon and the Clam shirt with two Barts kissing.
That white jacket, though, is dope.
Thank you.
It's luxury socialist.
Have you been taking any of this stuff in, Josh?
Yes.
So I'm a little...
I'm conflicted personally with my ideology.
I agree that I think schools should be public institutions.
I think that as a society, we should value education
and we should put people in our government that value education.
And again, the tendrils of capitalism have infected education, healthcare, blah, blah, blah, all that shit.
But I am also very intrigued at you destroying Harvard.
Reforming, reforming. We want to reform.
I'm an accelerationist.
I think that Harvard is the Isis of comedy.
And I think that they deserve to go down.
The Isis of comedy.
Yes.
I mean, just look at SNL.
But the...
For those who don't know, there's a huge rivalry in the comedy community between Harvard and working guys.
Guys who fucking actually tell jokes and love it.
Yeah, it's crazy.
But it's the exact thing where it's like you get into Harvard
because you have the same last name as someone who got into Harvard
and then, oh my God, look at you.
You're writing on the show that used to be good and is now bad.
It's so weird that there's more Harvard people.
The best Harvard alum is the Unabomber.
Anyway.
As a word for the other, I don't know,
as a showrunner who has therefore accidentally hired Ivy League guys,
like, you know, I'm looking back now,
actually, since the election is like...
In the room, I used to like mock all my Ivy League guys
because I have class issues because I'm like...
And I'm like, they teach you that at Harvard.
They teach you that, yeah.
They don't teach them anything there.
There is some kind of co-relation.
I just probably not cause effect, but there's a co-relation.
Yeah, they keep the lights on.
I mean, you've got to have people who actually show up to work.
And that's the Harvard guys.
Comedy writing requires a support system.
So if you're from the streets and you want to be a comedy writer,
you're at this huge disadvantage,
which at the same time means that,
okay, so if you want the veal cutlets,
like, go with the people that had the support system
because if at 13, if you were Harvard bound
and you decided you wanted to be a Harvard writer,
you can then split that assembly line into hacks and geniuses.
And so there are people that come out of the Ivy League
that knew that they wanted to quit there knowing
I don't want to be a comedy writer.
And I've worked with these guys and like, yeah, it's whatever.
I didn't mean to piss on your fun parade
and go like, well, not everybody's everything.
Hashtag not all Harvard's.
And it is a fun rivalry.
It's not a real rivalry.
No, because if it was, they would destroy us.
They're so rich.
They could get a drone, it'd be over.
But yeah.
Why isn't education, so if we tomorrow,
if we created a utopian base on the moon and we said,
okay, nobody up here would privatize any aspect of education,
would we ever?
What do you mean by privatize?
Well, I mean, charge money for it.
I would absolutely.
I'll tell you why.
Non-profit private universities are still private.
Berkeley is public.
Harvard is private.
Stanford is private.
SUNY is public.
I'm actually opposed to the idea of free college.
And I'll tell you why, because it's a regressive policy.
Think about it.
So if you think about college,
let's say not higher education, but just college.
Like Louis is playing and people are checking beer's college.
Yes, that college.
Who goes to college?
Rich people.
And people who are eventually going to be relatively wealthy.
Who is the tax base of this country?
100% of Americans.
One way shape or form,
you pay in taxes into this government.
And so if you say I'm going to take 100% of people's money
and effectively give it to rich people who don't need it,
and people who will be rich,
maybe some of them do need a leg up,
but eventually will be able to actually pay back.
I think you're distorting the numbers like crazy.
There's way less rich people than poor people,
or there's fewer rich people
than there are people that could use college for free.
The problem is that rich people are overwhelmingly going to college,
whereas poor people in proportion do not.
Because they can't afford it,
and if they could, then they would overwhelmingly go to college.
Even if they can't afford it.
The problem goes much earlier.
Well, I think that's why I want to decide.
I simplified it by saying if we were on the moon,
if all we had was a disaster,
all we have is a couple cans of air,
and some tents, and we got 100 people.
And we're designing a society now,
so we want to pick which parts of our society
are driven by the moon dollar,
if anything is going to be,
if there is going to be a moon dollar, I should say.
That's what I meant.
If we're starting from scratch,
because it sounds like more like you're being more pragmatic.
I'm going to be more pragmatic.
You're saying like,
oh, if you change this light bulb and plug in this Christmas ornament,
I think ideologically,
it's like, why would education ever be purchasable?
Why would any child,
whether they're one years old, 25 years old,
48 years old,
why would any student be,
if that wants to learn anything,
why does it benefit your society
if the moon is going to go to war with Mars,
and the moon has decided to charge money for education,
and Mars hasn't,
I feel like Mars is going to win in the long run.
Now, we have a different problem here,
because we can also say legalize everything,
but if we legalize all drugs tomorrow here in our situation,
we're going to have blood on our hands.
Except what's illegal?
What drugs are illegal?
Well, I'm just saying that,
there's a difference between having these conversations
when there's an existing infrastructure.
How do we move?
There are no silver bullets.
But within the existing infrastructure,
I still think that you're being a little tricky with numbers
and with statistics,
because you say that poor people,
regardless of how affordable college is, wouldn't go.
No, I'm all for the why is it regressive.
It's regressive because if you can afford $70,000 a year,
and somebody says,
I'll let that person go for free on the taxpayer's dollar,
that's insane.
I'm totally fine.
That's not insane.
I think that's insane.
I'm fine giving the six rich people the money
if the 94 out of the 100.
We don't know what social class is going to yield
the doctor that produces the cure for cancer.
But they're going to college anyway.
No, they're not.
They don't need,
a bunch of them are going to jail.
They do need.
No, the kids that can afford it,
mommy and daddy are writing that check.
Right.
But the kids who can afford it might be the ones to cure
the disease that we don't even know we're going to get yet.
Correct.
So we need to focus on them.
But why would you not means test access to college
doesn't make any sense.
If you have the means.
Means test is interesting,
but denying access will never yield the result.
No, no, no.
That's all I'm saying.
I'm saying the opposite.
It was what got us into this problem in the first place
where if you look throughout the history of America,
sweeping programs, you know, for example,
you look at like the golden age of comedy, right?
The golden age of comedy,
you had all these public works, theaters,
and places where people could do music.
And all of these things were funded by a class trader
in the White House.
Right.
And so without that,
these broke Jew immigrants that like my come from,
you know,
wouldn't be able to go learn to play the trombone
and then become Sid Caesar.
Sure.
You know.
And so if it was means tested,
it would be like,
if you make $14,999,
you get to go to college.
If you make $15,001,
you don't get to go to college.
Well, it's just a badly designed program, right?
I mean, but I think it goes beyond that where the idea,
and for those that don't understand,
the idea of means testing is to put a sort of line in the sand
where you go,
if you're more poor than this,
you get this,
if you're not, you don't.
And certainly there will be absolutely people
that are rich or who don't need the program,
who will benefit from it.
But if you look, I mean, realistically,
at the numbers,
there's far more people who deserve something
that will be getting it.
That's why I believe that health care should be,
you know,
totally free and public and public universities.
And I actually do think that there is a place
for private universities,
for-profit private universities within the system,
optionally,
because I don't believe in like a stolen thing.
To me, educational, I guess,
privatization would be analogous with elective surgery.
Like, I want to look like Mel Brooks.
But then, okay, then you have to pay for that.
The government doesn't pay for that.
But that's not good.
That's not good,
because then all of the rich people,
this is what you have today.
You have the poor people going to the poor university,
and you have the rich people going to the rich university.
Where's Goldman Sachs going to go higher?
I mean, hopefully, nowhere near my friends.
Okay, well, the point is,
when it comes to sciences, though,
it doesn't matter which university you go to,
it's the results that you yield.
It's the skills that you learn.
Correct.
But then you have to resource those universities
to provide those results.
But that's what happens.
Rich companies come in,
and they buy half of the University of Wisconsin
to develop something for their company.
But when you limit access,
you guarantee that you are not going to get the best of it.
Oh, no, exactly.
So what you have to do is you have to change.
So again, this is a good way.
So I'll give you a solution that I would implement
if I were like magic wand.
So my magic wand would be
the government makes a declaration
which is if you want to be a non-profit,
if you want to have any federal dollars,
any kind, you know, access to all grants,
not pay taxes and all the rest,
very simply, your student body needs to roughly align
to the socioeconomic spectrum in the United States.
Right?
You get 10% of your students from the top 10%,
10% of the bottom 10%, and throughout.
If you do not do that,
all of your federal funding gone.
Deal.
Right?
At that point, you have solved the access problem overnight.
Yeah.
I mean, or you don't have to do anything for free, right?
You just have to actually get those units.
So Harvard won't be 10, 10, 10, 10, 10.
It would be 10% and 90% from the bottom.
It would take no chances.
Right?
So this to me is something that you could do.
I feel like that system sounds better for Congress
if like Congress had to have like a representative,
like spectrum of wealth as like America.
But if we talk about how you need a college education
for a job, if we talk about how,
for me personally and for a lot of people,
I think education is a human right,
then anything that you do to get rid of access,
to limit access to all people is bad.
And that's not to say that like,
if you go to the poor school or whatever,
it would be in a situation where because of the taxes,
because of the money coming in,
there would be all this new money coming into public universities.
So those schools would become better, right?
If there's more people, if there's more perspectives,
there's more money coming in,
then people who go to those schools who luck out
and become people who can hire people,
they'll go, I'm not going to hire from Harvard.
You know, like this hypothetical is just as realistic as your hypothetical.
Correct.
If you actually create a much, much more well-resourced,
education-focused public university
that actually teaches people how to think,
and you have the privates keeping doing whatever they're doing,
then you're definitely right, right?
Yeah, I think...
Then the shift, the tide will shift.
I think with my drunken brain,
I think I'm just dumb enough to perceive
the two smart people are agreeing,
but that you guys are different distances from the problem.
Yeah.
Not distances from the problem being a project.
You were born from it and have a fucking...
You want to dig in and plug this wire into that wire
and hot wire this car,
and Josh is going like, why fucking cars, man?
And I think both of you are agreeing,
or I'm dumb and drunk,
and that's at least half true.
I think absolutely that your system has a place
within the system that I'm imagining.
I think that they're absolutely...
It's absurd that the IVs run the way they do
with legacy bullshit and all of that,
and that absolutely needs to be reformed,
and that there absolutely is a place in the world
for those who choose, electively,
to join a for-profit specialized private institution.
Like DeVry, or ITT,
or several places you could go to.
We'll leave links.
Yeah, if you use the promo code, whoops,
you can join University of Phoenix right now.
Well, if I don't play the bad guy and cut people off,
then no one is.
That's my role,
because as you know,
if you're new to this podcast, it's time to play Balderdash.
And so Spencer, are you prepared to...
You're not DMing Balderdash,
because the part of the game is that
we're going to rotate through dealers, I think.
Yeah, I think that's part of the game.
The game of Balderdash is simple.
Have you guys played Balderdash?
No.
Each participant will make up an answer to the question.
You explain it, you're better.
I'm bad at explaining games.
Why don't I dash for the first round?
And then I think by playing around, it'll become...
Learn by doing.
Yeah, it's pretty simple.
It's basically like,
I'm going to give you guys a piece of paper.
I'm going to give you a...
A box.
I'm going to give you a box.
Depending on the category,
I'm going to give you an acronym, a movie title,
a human name, something like that.
That thing has a sort of explanation.
If it's a movie, the movie has a synopsis.
If it's an acronym,
then the letters I'm going to give you
stand for something in real life somewhere.
I'm going to know the answer to that.
You guys are going to take two minutes.
I've got a special surprise for you during that two minutes
to write an attempt at a convincing answer
to what that thing is.
And then I'm going to read them all aloud,
including the real answer.
And...
Cards?
Yes.
And then here's your answer card.
I'll explain more in a second.
Spencer, you're going to do one too, right?
Yeah.
Okay, so players...
These are for far away.
So he's going to read the name,
and then we're going to invent...
Yeah.
...fake answers.
All right, so I'm going to...
I'm going to start with a really simple example,
because I think one of my least favorite categories
will actually make the best practice round.
It's called Laughable Laws.
Okay.
Laughable Laws.
All right, so I say to you guys,
in Garfield County, Montana,
it is illegal to draw...
And you just have two minutes to write an answer to that.
Please remember to write your name down in the lower right,
and just write your answer in the other spot.
And then for this two minutes,
Andy Dick is just going to...
We're going to have two minutes of Andy Dick while you...
Andy Dick, we have a microphone for you if you need us.
Yes, it's over there.
Sorry.
Okay, is anyone keeping time though?
I forgot that part.
It's on, but talk into it together.
Hello?
Oh, okay.
Can I get my new intern up to hold this?
They don't have a stand.
We must be 35 seconds into it.
Well, that's okay though.
They're already writing the answer.
If they have longer, it's just...
Can you come up?
You're done already?
I didn't even do my thing.
Okay, I'll do it on the next one.
We got two whole minutes.
What minute are we on?
We're on like 30 seconds in.
Are you doing Whippets?
No.
I wish.
Me too.
Maybe if you blow in this...
Do we have some Andy Dick music?
Just...
Do the D&D music.
Why don't you hold on to him?
No, I'm sorry, I'm not talking to you, Andy.
Sorry, we're...
I thought you were saying hold on to him.
Just hold on to me.
Because I'm going to write...
You keep going.
No!
Thank you, Zach.
Oh, for the podcast, Andy's blowing up a glove.
I couldn't find the Michael Williams.
That's right.
Okay, Andy is blowing up a glove.
Yeah, thank you, Spencer.
No, I mean, that about covers it.
You guys done?
No.
Keep going.
We got about a minute.
Okay, you can hand me your card.
I think I haven't made this work yet.
You didn't put your name.
You gotta...
Oh, okay.
Somebody else is making that.
We have a live ADR team here that is amazing.
I don't know which one is yours.
We could do it after, right?
No, I...
Oh, I got...
Yeah, you...
Okay, I know which one is yours,
because it's the one without the name on it.
Okay.
It was me doing it, wasn't it?
I don't think...
It sounded like it was coming from over there, didn't it?
Dude, let me look at your answer.
Okay, all right.
This is going pretty good, I think.
All right.
No, with me.
Okay, that's the two-minute.
All right, thank you, Andy Dick.
He'll be back in a moment.
All right, it'll be good.
Thank you.
We're all learning.
That's...
Thank you, thank you.
Okay, I get it.
I'm...
Okay.
Those nitrile gloves are harder.
Let's strike that.
Can we strike that?
All right.
Let's strike that.
Can you point it right into the monitor?
The longest strike ever.
That was...
Still on camera.
Human timer, Andy Dick.
All right.
As we go...
Okay.
This is a growth opportunity.
I'm worried about...
I had so much trouble with that,
and I'm like the Balderdash expert.
I'm worried about sicking that on other people.
Right.
I think maybe I should just be the permanent Balderdash dealer.
Yeah, I was kind of thinking about just having one dealer
when we were...
Yeah.
I'm pretty sure we all learned that tonight
no one can get an F.
Right.
All right.
So, now, you at home, and you guys,
it's your job to try to guess which one is the real one.
And then each person that guesses the real one, if any,
those people get a certain number of points.
It's either one or two.
I think it's one.
All right.
Anybody whose answer accrues guesses.
I think that guy gets two points.
See, this is means testing in action.
I got the points here.
Is it one...
If you get a vote,
if you get your answer voted for, you get a point.
Okay.
You get the right...
If you guess the right answer, you get two points.
Okay, you get two points.
And if I...
I get three points if none of you guessed the real one.
Just as a...
Right.
And if someone accidentally gets a right...
It keeps me honest.
Okay.
You also get three points.
All right.
So, in Garfield County, Montana, it is illegal to draw...
Shuffling these up.
I wrote the real answer on one of these pieces of paper
so you're not getting any clues.
Are we allowed to use Google?
No.
Okay.
It's not called Balder Cheat.
Well, it wouldn't be cheating if you were allowed to use it.
In Garfield County, Montana, it is illegal to draw funny faces on the outside of your
window shades.
Interesting.
Is this in Montana?
Yep.
Okay.
A male phallus on an overpass.
Also interesting.
A man enjoying himself to the Isley Brothers Live album moments after his divorce.
Sharon.
Is final Sharon?
You're not supposed to tip your hat if you didn't answer.
To those listening.
I mean, you can.
It's fun.
He is nodding.
Yeah, that didn't work out.
I wasn't going to vote for that one.
I didn't know how this was going to pay off.
No, it's cool.
You made the right choice.
A commissioned mural on a Monday, bitch.
Okay.
So those answers again.
In Garfield County, Montana, it is illegal to draw funny faces on the outside of your
window shades.
A male phallus on an overpass.
A man enjoying himself to the Isley Brothers Live album moments after his divorce.
Is final Sharon.
Sorry.
That's a crime in a lot of states, Sharon.
A commissioned mural on a Monday, bitch.
All right.
Whose guesses are hooms?
Wait, aren't we supposed to guess?
Yes.
That's why I said whose guesses are hooms.
The funny faces is my guess.
Funny faces is your guess.
So let's see.
I'll put a little S there and then Ben, what's your guess?
I'm going to go with you overpass.
Overpass phallus.
So I'll put a B in there and then Josh.
I'm going to go funny faces.
It's Montana.
It's weird.
Funny faces.
Okay.
So in the game of Balderdash, what would happen here?
Wait.
Oh, wait.
I'm sorry.
Brandon, wait.
You don't have to ask me.
No, what's your guess?
Josh, you're picking funny faces, right?
Yes.
Okay.
What do you think the real answer is?
What do you think is the real one?
I was going to say penises.
On the overpass.
Typical.
Okay.
So that's, okay.
So I don't get any points because some of you guessed the real one.
The real one is funny faces on the outside.
Spencer, therefore, gets a point.
Is that correct?
That's for getting the right answer.
And I get two points because two people voted for my answer.
No, you get one point for guessing the right answer.
No, I get two points who guessed the real answer.
Two points to players who guessed the real answer.
I'm learning that right off the thing.
So you only get a point for everyone who guesses yours.
So two people guessed yours.
Right.
So you're getting a total of three points.
Because I did the fallacies on the overpass.
Oh.
Spencer just left.
It's it.
Ran off stage.
He's lost his mind.
He's back on stage.
Rolled on stage.
Fire rolled on stage.
And he's back to the chair.
Which did not roll away.
He stuck the land.
I hope I went now.
So that's, that's a, that's a total of, yeah, I can't remember.
Four points.
Okay.
Did anyone else win points?
Yes.
Other people won some points because.
Yeah.
You got two points for getting the right answer.
Right.
God damn it.
It's too hard.
Points are fun.
I mean, we could just do the rounds without keeping score.
Well, yeah, but what's, yeah, it's not fun.
Right.
I mean, it's.
Well, it's funer than this.
Relative.
We could eat bowls of shit and be further.
And that's not, wait a minute.
I'm a, I'm a fun stickler.
Wait, wake up.
I don't know how Doug Benson does it on his show.
Yeah.
I guess I was just thinking like if we did like, if we did enough rounds, but then I
was, but it's just like, I wouldn't wish this job on anyone.
Like this is awful.
It's, it's really hard to do.
Yeah.
This job is boulder dash.
Oh, that's why it's the dasher.
I just got that.
All right.
So someone, Spencer won and somebody else got points.
So the, I should have ran around.
We could do another round.
I mean, you don't seem to want to.
So that's fine.
I'm just worried about, I have, I have two hats on.
Do you want one is a terrible Balderdash dealer and then the other is a terrible podcast
host.
Yeah.
I feel like I'm making my, the two of them are, are losing to each other.
And yeah, and we're all losing to Doug Benson.
It feels like choosing a holiday game that ends in arguments might not have been the
best, but talking about politics was going so well.
Can we, can we give you, we stall just a little bit and maybe ask them where we're going in
terms of education.
You mean while Andy Dick does two minutes or while you, while you get your cards together
because we, we don't know what that, what's the uptick on the way of getting out of this
conversation that we had with you earlier.
That's sort of like, what should we expect?
Yeah.
That ain't, that ain't nearly as good, Andy Dick.
Is there a camera?
I thought I heard my name.
No, you did.
I'm late.
I mean early.
Am I early or late?
You're just a little early.
But you have all the instruments.
You did have the right instruments.
I could have sworn we said two hangers, Andy Dick.
One hanger.
Andy Dick is who we're working with right now.
Geez.
I'm sorry.
Two hangers, Andy Dick, one hanger, Andy Dick is who we're working with right now.
Jesus.
Okay.
Yeah.
Tell us, tell us, tell us.
Give us a little future.
So, so, you know, so do you have an example?
So whenever it's now on our third class of undergrads.
So it started this past September.
And where, where are the first one and two classes?
This semester they're in Seoul.
Next semester they're going to Hyderabad.
Awesome.
And for this third class, we received more applications, third class ever than Dartmouth
or MIT did.
So give me, what's the ballpark on that?
20,400 applications from 179 countries.
And how many people are you going to take?
We took last year just under 2%, which actually shows that you can be the most selective university
in the country and the most economically diverse without trying.
It's not, that wasn't the goal.
It was just we stopped discriminating.
Do you have scholarships?
Yeah.
80% of our students are in some form financially.
That's pretty amazing.
Yeah.
It's pretty amazing.
So what do you hope?
What is your biggest dream with all of this?
Would you, would you want a brick and mortar one day?
No, no.
My, my, my biggest dream is that other universities are forced to follow.
Because what we've, we've shown third party assessed our students and showed that what
our students have been able to accomplish in eight months, no university has been able
to demonstrate that they can get their students to accomplish in four years.
And that's on critical thinking, problem solving, reasoning, and communication skills.
Do you have any sort of endowment program?
We, we have endowment, but it, it will take a long time to realize.
So right now we're doing a lot of fundraising to enable all those scholarships.
And it's, it's hard work.
Yeah.
Thanks for doing that.
Hard work.
Well, that sounds like...
Andy Dick.
Where are you?
No, no, no, no, no.
Wait, hold on to Andy Dick.
Hold on to Andy.
Hold on to Andy Dick.
Hold your Andy Dick.
Stroke it, but hold it.
Love it.
It's our fault.
It sounds a lot to me like the narrative is subjective as it is in the category of
Marvelous Movies in Balderdash.
So I'd like you to each take, take one of these empty Balderdash cards.
And I'd like you to try to convince each other what the plot synopsis would be for a
Marvelous movie entitled San Diego I Love You.
Two minutes of Andy Dick will happen during your writing.
Yeah.
Yeah, I saw this in Germany once.
It was amazing.
Yeah.
Oh, don't hurt yourself.
Well, we'll get, we'll get, we'll get somebody to help you next time.
When does the time start?
It starts now.
It started, yeah.
Tell me when we're at 30.
You got it.
Then tell me when we're at, you know, 130.
I got it.
Well, okay.
We're at 30.
No, I'll do that.
He needs to write an answer.
Okay.
We're at 30.
No, no, no.
Two hanger, two hanger, two hanger, Andy Dick in the house.
Brandon, write your answer.
This should be about the bridge, like the midpoint.
Yeah.
Well, don't, he's writing.
Don't get, he's, he's in the competition and you're looking at him and banging a thing.
Look at, I'll, I can talk to you about it.
They're, they're all writing.
Yeah.
I'll, I'll ask, I'll interview you.
Now, Andy, I don't want to get you in legal trouble, but this is stomp based.
Maybe this is stomp based.
Is that a setup?
Am I supposed to?
Well, how did they, how did they know?
Oh, sponsor banks.
Okay.
All right.
That was my timer.
That's been two minutes.
Yeah.
Ladies and gentlemen, Andy Dick.
Thank you so much.
Andy Dick, ladies and gentlemen, Andy Dick.
Andy Dick.
This is not his first time.
Don't take those.
We could, we could do that.
You got your, do I have everybody's card over here?
I got, I got people forgetting to write their names.
That's a normal Balderdash thing.
Okay.
I got, I think if I can, and that's okay.
And so I know the person that didn't write their name then.
Why, why are you so mean to me?
I don't think you wrote your name.
Oh, you did.
Bottom right.
Yeah.
Wait, who didn't?
No, thank you though.
God bless.
All right.
That's okay.
Oh boy.
I'm sorry.
No, no, I didn't, that wasn't it.
I know how that sounded here again, but it was just like, yeah, this is.
Yeah.
I mean, we can't afford that.
Look, you, you, it's obviously it's not going to, it's not going to take out D.
You're safe.
No, this isn't what I'm saying.
This is all, it's just like, I, this has been a, I mean, gauntlet is negative, but smorgasbord
to be sure.
Just keep on your toes, you know, if D&T ever, ever falls before this level of entertainment.
I'm just saying, I'm not complaining.
I like this.
Okay.
I like bad podcasts.
No, no.
I really do.
I think this is a lot of fun.
I feel like this is very unique.
It's very unique, like the listeners should be doing what they do right now.
Okay.
They should be entertaining themselves for a second.
Yes.
You know, listeners.
You're bored right now.
It's because you as a listener, if not, you didn't get up to make a cheese sandwich.
Personal responsibility.
You've been sitting here for hours.
46 minutes.
You were commercials.
Yeah.
Are you back from the bathroom?
Good.
Cause we're ready for you now.
Listener.
Thanks for doing your part.
All right.
San Diego, I love you is a movie.
And the following possible synopses include the real one and your job is to guess.
Okay.
Got a little shit face.
No, that was exactly the explanation of the game.
San Diego, I love you.
A daughter tries to keep her family together with while promoting her father's inventions.
I mean that.
Try not to laugh.
San Diego, I love you.
San Diego is taken over by ocean side gamers.
San Diego.
What happened?
I love you.
It's just the Godfather, but everyone's name is Skyler.
Everybody's name is what?
Skype.
Skyler.
San Diego, I love you.
Two paths collide in this 1980s culture crash between a hip comic book artist and a fastidious
marine drill sergeant.
Interesting.
A romantic comedy musical about former high school sweethearts who fall in love with each
other and their hometown.
So those synopses again.
Other names, San and Diego in the last one.
It could be any of those.
San Diego, I love you.
A daughter tries to keep her family together while promoting her father's inventions.
San Diego is taken over by ocean side gamers.
San Diego, I love you.
It's just the Godfather, but everyone's name is Skyler.
Two paths collide in this 1980s culture crash between a hip comic book artist and a fastidious
marine drill sergeant.
San Diego, I love you.
A romantic comedy musical about former high school sweethearts who fall in love with each
other and their hometown.
Okay.
We'll start the guessing with Ben Nelson, noted educational activist.
Turned Balderdash.
Midler.
Very, very bad player.
I'll go with the culture crash, the 1980s.
Culture.
Clash.
Culture clash.
1980s culture.
Clash.
Yeah.
All right.
We got to be in on that one.
Shut up, too.
Culture clash.
All right.
Wonderful comedy show.
And Josh Andraski.
Culture club.
I'm a guy.
Social activist in self-imposed exile.
Sure.
I'm going to go with the culture clash one because it sounds like something you'd read
on the back of a VHS.
And it reminds me of, like, you know, Lily Tomlin and Mel Brooks are the couple of the
90s in this wacky.
Yeah, it's that one.
We got that.
Brandon.
I'm going to go with the daughter.
Trying to hustle her dad's old products.
All right.
Well, Brandon has made.
I got to go.
Oh, you got to go.
Well, it sounds like you said he had the right answer, but I was going to guess the last answer,
the fifth one, whatever the musical.
Are you just, you're not trying to give it to me, are you?
No, it sounded like he was about to say that you had the right answer.
And I didn't want to then use that knowledge to cheat.
All right, so Spencer guessed Ben's.
Damn it.
Which means Ben gets a point.
Yeah.
All right.
Brandon guessed the right one, which means Brandon gets two points.
Right.
San Diego, I love you was in fact a daughter tries to keep her family together with promoting
father's inventions.
What were his inventions?
Drones.
Great.
That sounded like Jurassic.
Weaponized.
Weaponized drones.
And then both once again drawn in by Spencer's perverse ability to emulate a board game.
Wow.
I mean, that really does.
When you, when you look at it, it makes a lot of sense.
He's like a Balderdash ringer.
Part person.
Part dash.
Yeah.
All right.
Are you still keeping score?
I think I'm at six.
I think I'm at six to maybe someone as two.
I think you have two.
I got two from the first round.
One.
Yeah, you got one this round.
This last one for a thousand points.
Sounds great.
All right.
Now, Andy, I want you on deck, but you're not going yet.
We're going to get better at this.
But this third round, we're going to show you how this fucking, this is going to go good.
It's been going good.
Yeah, we are.
They're bringing CISO back just for this.
Oh, great.
Brought to you by Balderdash and CISO.
We spent too much money on you guys.
CISO.
You saw it coming.
Nothing left to see.
So check out Hulu.
I guess I'll do a category of peculiar people.
So this is just a name.
Here, pass these blank ones down.
So it's like a historical figure.
Benito.
It's not necessarily true.
It's just a name.
So you just have to, here, I'll pick an example one so that we can get the tone.
Like, peculiar people example would be, oh, Shay Jackson.
And then the answer is the real name of Raptor, actor Ice Cube.
Well, geez, well, that was a bad thing for them to include.
What happens when somebody writes the real answer?
If you get the, if you know the real one.
You get some points.
You might get three points.
Yeah.
So you would get 1,000.
So you would get, well, we're not, I was kidding.
I don't want to fuck that up.
So Christmas is ruined.
Excellent.
Oh, right.
That means I'm almost certainly going to win.
Yeah.
I need those points to feed my family, Dan.
We could do double points maybe.
Or we could say you have to win by 10 and just keep playing until that we could do.
All right.
This is a name.
The name is Jeremy Bentham, B-E-N-T-H-A-M.
And what are we supposed to do?
You're supposed to just say who that person is.
Okay.
Like why they're notable.
Yes.
What their deal is.
Okay.
They might be the inventor of peanut butter.
They're right.
And I give you two minutes of Andy Dick.
Oh.
Okay.
If you love Christmas Nativity at the Crystal Cathedral, you'll love this next act.
Andy Dick at Harmontown.
Okay.
Two hangers.
A mallet.
It looks like a one by six.
We're at about 20 seconds in.
Andy has a one by four.
I don't know.
It's a long, thin piece of lumber.
It looks like a one by six.
It's better if I'm on deck.
Right.
Yeah.
We're at 35.
Whoa.
This isn't just stump.
It's my off Broadway show called Knock.
Knock.
It's Andy's off Broadway show called Knock.
I forgot to write my name again.
Put it on Broadway if you're doing it.
Oh goodness.
Please don't.
For everybody listening with headphones.
God bless you.
14 people just died in car.
Correct.
We're at one minute and 30 seconds.
So we have 30 more seconds.
Right.
Yeah.
30 more seconds.
So if you could just do the two verses, first two verses.
Oh, a remix.
Okay.
It's been.
Ben didn't put his name.
Okay.
I did.
Oh, you did.
Wait.
I didn't.
Josh didn't.
No, I didn't.
I keep forgetting.
I'm watching.
You know, I'm watching Lion King.
Yeah.
No, you're wearing a lot of hats.
Okay.
Thank you.
That was two minutes of Andy Dick.
Two minutes of Andy Dick.
The show.
Yeah.
We could get that.
Did you want to do something on the back of the album?
I don't know.
Well, I don't think there will be.
Yeah, just for the people that are listening.
Why don't you just tell them something, Andy Dickish?
Because anyone can bang on a board.
Tell everybody about being unexpectedly bisexual
and some point in your life or...
Fine, fine, fine.
I think my last instrument that you never did.
Well, you could just tell us how you're doing.
How are you?
Well, that was certainly an action.
So...
He's angry.
He's angry at me.
There's nothing better than...
A scruffy figure tossed to traffic going on to the stage.
Duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh.
Hey.
Duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh.
How are you?
Like, so let people know how you are.
Listeners are my podcast.
Right.
You wanted me to stay on for the blind listeners?
What are you doing for the holiday season, Andy Dick?
Anything?
Any kids that are all here right now.
Because you just, you told a great dream tale about the Christmas.
That one on VICE.
This year you've got to have something different planned.
Or are you going to revisit that shit?
No, no, no, no, no.
Something else?
No.
Well, it's probably going to be, you know, the Yule Tide log.
Something low-key.
Yeah, very low-key.
You're invited.
Thank you so much.
I'm always invited to your stuff.
And it's like I come 50-50.
Right?
Do you do Dino's Christmas?
It's 50-50.
Yeah.
I usually go out of town, but I'm staying in town.
Andy's always invited.
He's had a standing invite.
He just doesn't know where you're going.
You heard him.
You went to Santa Barbara last week and you were caught in the fires.
Yeah.
Have you talked about that?
No, I didn't think.
He was caught, I'm going to talk about it.
He was caught in the fires, like trapped.
Tell him.
Don't forget, Dan, tell us about the Paul McCartney song when you get a chance.
Oh, shit.
No, we'll talk about that next week.
Next week will be our Christmas episode.
We'll talk about the Paul McCartney Christmas song.
Excellent.
Which one?
Which is a very polarizing song.
That piece of shit, horrible.
You don't like the McCartney?
It's the worst fucking Christmas song.
Why have you met him?
I don't hate Paul McCartney, I hate his Christmas song.
Okay, that's probably shitty.
And he hates a...
Correct.
Generous word because that song doesn't deserve my activation.
Anyways.
Anybody who starts a sentence with the word simply can fuck off.
Oh, do they know it's Christmas after all is kind of the shittiest one for me.
Is that the one?
Yeah.
The snow is white.
The lights are on.
The gifts are out.
That's enough.
Fuck it.
Simply half.
It's like the laziest fucking Christmas song.
The Santa's here.
The deer can fly.
The fucking snow is falling.
What else do you want?
I'm a beetle.
I think you can feel his fucking muscles atrophy.
And then for it to be in every jukebox and for everyone to fall for that.
We need better education, better critical thinking skills.
We need kids to be out there going, I'm not going to play this on the jukebox.
This is ridiculous.
It has four notes.
Darling love.
Let's wrap this up with the results of this last round of all.
All right.
Well, thank you.
Andy Dick.
Go to Andy's Periscope if you want to give me money.
Periscope has changed.
I'm gray listed.
Did we get into that?
Where do I put this microphone?
Yeah.
Or you can.
I can't work again for three months.
That's what gray means.
No, that's his estimate.
Andy's using the phrase gray listed to refer to him.
I would.
Using an algorithm that I came up with in my face.
It's like he has a base.
I need a base.
There's a lot of people that are rooting for Andy.
Andy's yeah.
Andy says gray listed.
I think what he means not to put words in his mouth, but I am.
Everybody loves Andy.
But yeah, he can't get work because it's like, like, so he's not blacklisted
because it's not like, oh, you're, there's some reason.
That you're, you're, you're banned.
It's like, oh, there's no, there's no denial of it or whatever.
It's like, we'll keep track of Andy and his, and his travails.
He's, he was, he was, he was a periscoping from here.
And now Periscope has some tip feature.
I believe Andy is 100% subsisting on Periscope right now.
Wow.
Please give.
It's a, it's a new business model.
You don't have to wait for Periscope.
You can, you can give anyway.
We're going to be doing an Andy Dick telephone later on.
All right.
Operators are standing by.
Yeah.
I like that.
I do like that.
Like what, what the post Weinstein, like the sex scandal, all this stuff.
And I was like, no, Andy's going to survive this fine because he's a human
hurricane because like the one headline about Andy Dick that,
that came out during that whole purge was like the headline was so
complicated.
It tripped over itself.
Like Andy Dick confesses to sexual assault, asks the cameraman if he's
married falls down, eats a trash bag and like, like ends up marrying somebody.
It was like the headline is like, like, leave this guy alone.
Yeah.
Like he's not, you're not knocking anyone down a peg if you're, if you're
going for Andy Dick.
He's, he's, he's, he's, he's on his own journey.
Very honest, very open.
He may be the one, he may be the last man standing.
All right.
I hope you didn't mind me speaking about him like that while he's standing
offstage.
That's nice.
No, he's, he's in the back.
All right.
So your, your, your question was who is this?
Wait, the name was, I didn't write it down.
The name is Jeremy Bentham.
Jeremy Bentham, the possibilities of Jeremy Bentham are he is assuming he
is, you're welcome.
He is one of seven genders or two sexes.
All right.
He is musician, Adam Ant.
A noted moral philosopher.
His preserved body is on display at a London university.
The boy who ate the most spaghetti.
Dammit.
I think that's a good answer.
That's a good answer.
I've been getting stoned on stage.
I think that's a good answer.
Yeah.
Fuck that dude.
The first, I'm sorry, I'm drunk.
The first Puerto Rican shortstop for the Padres.
Oh, Los Yalami, Bentham.
Yeah.
Those answers again.
Jeremy Bentham is either musician, Adam Ant, a noted moral philosopher.
His preserved body is on display at a London university.
The boy who ate the most spaghetti.
Or the first Puerto Rican shortstop for the Padres.
Puerto Rican.
Puerto.
Who should go first?
Spencer, you guess first.
Sorry.
It's okay.
The first answer.
The, what was it?
Adam Ant.
Adam Ant, yeah.
That's a Spencer guess for Adam Ant.
All right.
Ben Nelson.
I'm going to go with the body in the university.
All right.
Josh.
Although I want to say the boy who ate the most spaghetti.
Because it's a great answer.
I'm going to have to go with Adam Ant because I'm just going to follow whatever Spencer
does in a board game.
All right.
I'm going to go with philosopher.
Well, this is a complicated round.
It's notably because Josh Andraski high-fived his own answer.
Someone was going to take it.
Like someone was going to guess it.
He's just trying.
He's just thought maybe he could psych Brandon out.
He's like, well, I'd love to say the boy's spaghetti.
I'm on my last limb here, man.
I didn't come here to make podcast friends.
By the way, it's kind of complicated because there are two right answers.
Oh, look at the drama.
Oh, because you knew.
Oh, of course.
Well, the college master knows everything that goes out into college, including if a
body is preserved at a university in London.
If you killed a guy and put him in your university and his name happened to be Jeremy Bentham,
I don't think that should count for points.
Wait, so Ben, was that your guess?
No, he's a noted moral philosopher as well.
Oh, wait, but you knew both were correct, but you decided to...
I didn't know which feature of Jeremy Bentham was the answer, but I knew who he was.
Well, you must have known that no one was going to just riff that his body was preserved
in a, I don't know, why am I yelling at you?
We could dance at the college, dude.
I didn't write that answer.
That's the fault.
Of course.
He's the smartest person up here, man.
He redesigns colleges, man.
I know.
Well, that's why it complicates Balderdash because if we didn't have him up there,
we wouldn't know he was a noted moral philosopher,
in which case Brandon and Ben both would have technically guessed right,
but because Ben's up here, we know that Ben guessed right along with Brandon.
I don't know how to score this.
Well, who gave the right answer?
Exactly.
Who wrote it?
You wrote spaghetti, right?
Oh, oh, oh.
I wrote the noted moral philosopher.
So you get three points for having wrote written that answer.
He was buried in the...
And then you get two points for that, I think.
Oh, I think we're tied.
Right.
So you were so familiar with Jeremy Bentham that you were like...
But he chose my answer also.
Oh, yeah.
So I think you win.
Oh, right.
Okay.
And that's how we treat guests anyway.
Yeah.
You know what?
Give him 900 points.
Well, yeah.
I think he gets seven points for the game.
Ben Nelson has won Balderdash and America.
That's going to go on my tombstone, I'm sure.
Now, Ben, your prizes, you get to tell us.
You get to spend the end of this podcast telling kids out there.
And like, how do they...
If they want to...
If they're interested in what you've been talking about,
like, where do they go?
Dot com wise, geography wise.
What do they do to get sucked into your...
To your black hole of advancement?
So if you are so inclined, you can just type Minerva into Google.
It'll come up.
But you can go to Minerva.
M-I-N-E-R-V-A.
That's how dumb we've become.
Is that if you type the name of this Roman goddess into Google,
the first thing that will come up is the guy who's using it for his educational program.
Sometimes Wikipedia will outrank us.
But we're one or two.
She's Athena.
She's the Roman version of Athena, right?
She's the Roman version of Athena and the inspiration for our Constitution.
So, and the goddess of wisdom.
But so that...
Yeah, just start Googling Minerva and the...
Or go to MinervaProject.com.
M-This is for people in particular who are like,
like, look, man, I've had it.
I want to participate in this moon raker project educationally.
I want to become a super, super thinker.
And, like, I don't trust the current system.
Even whether or not I can afford it,
it fucking is going to end with me in a drip pan of society or president.
Yeah.
These are people who believe that training your mind is as important as,
you know, athletes think training their bodies are.
So if you think that training your mind is important,
Minerva's where you should be.
Excellent.
And Josh Andraski, we just brought back,
because he was an awesome guest last time,
and we actually, I want to have Josh back regularly just to tell us about shit
that, like, would normally make us sad,
but we're going to turn it into little games and things.
But we didn't have a chance to do that this time.
I'll be back.
Thank you.
I appreciate you coming back.
And I appreciate you guys tangling and not dismissing each other,
even though you had some disagreements.
It was interesting to hear you guys talk.
I felt like I might be an award worthy cable access host.
I hear there's a certain PBS interview show that's now as a vacancy, so.
Yeah.
Thank you both for coming by and everybody out there.
What did we learn this week?
Give Andy Dick two minutes and.
And he will break your heart.
And he could change your life.
At least add some lyrics.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
Thanks, come home on time, thanks for coming to see Dan down.
So you guys laugh, but once Moby gets a hold of these recordings,
he's going to add a beat, and this is going to,
and Andy is going to be suing him.
All right.
Uh, well, thank you.
John, literally, he pops his pimple.
Joe.
Shit.
All right.
Are we going out on, uh, we're going on a beat?
Yeah, well, or, oh, well, I think we're, I mean, we're so done.
We could just thank people.
Do you have a list of people to thank?
Do you have a written or any?
I don't have a list of people to thank.
I think you, I think you pretty much want to thank people, Dan.
Off the top of my head, I would say,
thank Kris Boruff for being the director.
I love you, Kris Boruff.
Thanks, Zac McKeever, for directing all the audio.
Thanks, Sarah Hill, for doing a bunch of shit
that we should probably have her up here and explain everything
that she does.
I keep, I keep, I keep dismissively saying she's the person
that hands me all the titles.
What about Steve Levy?
Steve Levy's wandering around out there.
Zach, the audio maniac.
I do want to thank, we already thank Zach.
I do want to thank Nolan, who continues
to try to permit the, the castle so that we can have
an audience back in every one day while, while wrangling everything.
And, uh, and, and, and, and special thanks to Brian Baldinger.
Yes.
Or Baldinger, depending on whether you're from
Norwegian or not, uh, for putting us in touch with Ben,
and, uh, um, uh, I don't know, who else?
There's probably some interns that are, like,
going to sue us later, and, oh, Andy Dick.
Thank you, Andy Dick, for, thank you.
I didn't think that's it, but, he's hitting a wood with a hammer
for God's sake.
Thank you, Andy Dick.
Uh, we'll, we'll see you next week.
It's going to be our Christmas episode.
It's going to be amazing.
I promise.
We're going to simply have a wonderful Christmas time.
Thank you.
Good night.
This is the end of Harmontown.
I've been Brandon Johnson.
We'll see you next week.
Drive slow and don't take chances.
Don't.
Did you get any of that?
It's a good show.
Oh.